## ecommerce-test-automation

This repository contains automated testing project for a demo e-commerce application, including test plan, test cases, automated smoke tests, and bug reports.

The testing project is conducted on the demo e-commerce application available at [https://demo.nopcommerce.com/](https://demo.nopcommerce.com/). This application serves as a simulated environment for testing various functionalities and scenarios.

### Prerequisites

#### Visual Studio:

- [Visual Studio](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/downloads/)
- [Google Chrome](https://www.google.com/chrome/)
- [.NET Core SDK](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download)

#### Command-line Interface (CLI):

- [.NET Core SDK](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download)

### Running Tests

#### Using Visual Studio:

1. Clone or download this repository to your local machine.

2. Open the `SmokeTestAutomation.sln` solution file in Visual Studio.

3. Build the solution by selecting `Build` > `Build Solution` from the top menu.

4. Run the tests by selecting `Test` > `Run All Tests` from the top menu.

5. After running the tests, you'll see the test results in the Test Explorer window. Green checkmarks indicate passed tests, while red crosses indicate failed tests. You can view detailed test results and logs here.

#### Using Command-line Interface (CLI):

1. Clone or download this repository to your local machine.

2. Open your command-line interface (CLI).

3. Navigate to the directory where the `SmokeTestAutomation.csproj` file is located.

4. Run the following command to build the project and restore dependencies:

   ```bash
   dotnet build
   ```

5. Once the build is successful, run the tests using the following command:

   ```bash
   dotnet test
   ```

6. After running the tests, you'll see the test results in the CLI. Green checkmarks indicate passed tests, while red crosses indicate failed tests. Additionally, you can find detailed test results and logs in the `TestResults` directory generated by the `dotnet test` command.

### Test Results

Regardless of whether you run the tests through Visual Studio or the CLI, you'll receive detailed test results indicating which tests passed and which ones failed. You can use these results to verify the functionality of the SmokeTestAutomation project.

### Tasks

1. Write Test Cases: Concentrate on real user flows and create comprehensive test cases for the application.
Find the detailed test cases in the docs folder under the files Test Cases.pdf
2. Identify Smoke Tests: Determine which test cases represent a Smoke Test.
Review the identified Smoke Tests in the docs folder in the document Identification of Smoke Tests.pdf.
3. Report Positive and Negative Test Cases: Differentiate between positive and negative test cases.
Refer to the document Positive and Negative Test Cases.pdf for the identified positive and negative test cases in the docs folder.
4. Report Bugs: If any bugs are found during testing, report them with detailed steps to reproduce.
Refer to the document Bug Report.pdf in the docs folder for reported bugs and steps to reproduce them.
